Haste you to Lord Timon;
Importune him for mymoneys;
be not ceased by slightdenial,
nor then silenced when
"Commend me to yourmaster,"
and the cap plays in theright hand, thus.
But tell him, my uses cryto me,
I must serve my turn outof mine own.
His days and times arepast
and my reliance on hisfracted dates
have smit my credit:
I love and honor him,
but I must not break myback to heal his finger.
Immediate are my needs,
and my relief must not betossed and turned to mein words,
but find supply immediate.
Get you gone.
Put on a most importunateaspect,
a visage of demand, for, Ido fear,
when every feather sticksin his own wing,
Lord Timon will be left anaked gull,
which flashes now aphoenix.
Get you gone.
I go, sir.
Take the bonds along withyou,
I will, sir.
Have the dates incontempt.
Go.
No care, no stop!
So senseless of expense,
that he will neither knowhow to maintain it,
nor cease his flow ofriot.
Takes no account howthings go from him,
nor resumes no care ofwhat is to continue.
Never mind was to be sounwise, to be so kind.
Oh, what shall be done?
He will not hear, tillfeel.
I must be round with him,now he comes from hunting.
Fie, fie, fie!
Good even.
What, you come for money?
Is it your business too?
'Tis, and yours?
Would we were alldischarged!
I fear it.
Here comes the lord.
So soon as dinner's done,
we'll forth again, myAlcibiades.
With me?
What is your will?
My lord, here is a note ofcertain dues.
Dues?
Whence are you?
Of Athens here, my lord.
Go to my steward.
Please it, Your Lordship,
he has put me out to thesuccession
of new days this month.
My master is awaked togreat occasion
to call upon his own,
and humbly prays you that,with your other noble parts,
you'll suit in giving himhis right.
Mine honest friend, Iprithee, but repair to menext morning.
Nay, good my lord!
Contain thyself, goodfriend.
One Varro's servant, mygood
From Isidore;
he humbly prays yourspeedy payment.
If you did know, my lord,my master's wants
'Twas due on forfeiture, mylord, six weeks and past.
Give me breath!
My lords, I beseech you,keep on;
I'll wait upon youinstantly.
Come hither, I pray you.
I beseech you, how goesthe world
that I am thus encounteredwith clamorous demands
of debt, broken bonds,
and the detention oflong-since-due debtsagainst my honor?
Please you, gentlemen,
the time is unagreeable tothis business.
Your importunacy ceasetill after dinner,
that I may make HisLordship understand
wherefore you are notpaid.
Do so, my friends.
Pray, you're welcome here.
I'll speak with you anon.
You make me marvel.
Wherefore ere this time
you had not fully laid mystate before me,
that I might so have ratedmy expense,
as I had leave of means?
You would not hear me; atmany leisures, I proposed.
Go to!
Perchance some singlevantages you took
when my indisposition putyou back,
and that unaptness madeyour minister,
thus to excuse yourself.
Oh, my good lord, at many timesI brought in my accounts,
laid them before you.
You would throw them off
and say you found them inmine honesty.
When, for some triflingpresent, you have bid mereturn so much,
I have shook my head andwept;
Yea, against the authorityof manners,
prayed you to hold yourhand more close.
I have endured not seldom,nor no slight checks,
when I have prompted youin the ebb of your estate
and your great flow ofdebts.
My loved lord, though youhear now too late
yet now's a time
the greatest of yourhaving lacks a half
to pay your present debts.
Let all my lands be sold.
'tis all engaged, someforfeited and gone;
and what remains willhardly stop the mouth ofpresent dues.
The future comes apace.
What shall defend theinterim?
And at length, how goesour reckoning?
To Lacedaemon did my landextend.
O my good lord, the worldis but a word.
Were it all yours to giveit in a breath,
how quickly were it gone!
You tell me true?
If you suspect myhusbandry or falsehood,
call me before theexactest auditors
and set me on the proof.
So the gods bless me,
when all our offices havebeen oppressed withriotous feeders,
when our vaults have weptwith drunken spilth of wine,
when every room was blazedwith lights
and brayed withminstrelsy,
I have retired me to awasteful cock
and set mine eyes at flow.
Prithee, no more.
Heavens, have I said, thebounty of this lord!
How many prodigal bitshave slaves and peasants
this night englutted!
Who is not Timon's?
What heart, head, sword, force,means, but is Lord Timon's?
Great Timon, noble,worthy, royal Timon!
Ah, when the means aregone that buy this praise,
the breath is gone whereofthis praise is made.
Feast-won, fast-lost;
one cloud of winter showers,these flies are couched.
Come, sermon me nofurther.
No villainous bounty yethath passed my heart;
unwisely, not ignobly,have I given.
Why dost thou weep?
Has thou the conscience lackto think I shall lack friends?
Secure thy heart;
if I would broach thevessels of my love,
and try the arguments ofhearts by borrowing,
men and men's fortunescould I frankly use
as I can bid thee speak.
Assurance bless yourthoughts!
And, in some sort, thesewants of mine are crowned,
that I account themblessings;
for by these shall I tryfriends.
You shall see how youmistake my fortunes;
I am wealthy in myfriends.
Within there!
Flaminius!
My lord?
Servilius!
I will dispatch youseverally;
To Lord Lucius, you;
to Lord Lucullus, you.
I hunted with His Honortoday.
To Sempronius, you.
Commend me to their loves,and, I am proud, say,
that my occasions havefound time to use 'em
toward a supply of money.
Let the request be...fifty talents?
As you have said, my lord.
Lord Lucius and Lucullus,hmm?
And go you, sir, to thesenators
of whom, even to thestate's best health,
I have deserved thishearing
bid 'em send of the instanta thousand talents to me.
I have been bold
for that I knew it themost general way
to them to use your signetand your name;
but they do shake theirheads,
and I am here no richer inreturn.
It is true?
Can it be?
They answer, in a jointand corporate voice,
that now they are at fall,want treasure,
cannot do what they would;
are sorry you arehonorable
but yet they could havewished
they know not somethinghath been amiss
a noble nature may catch awrench
would all were well  'tispity;
and so, intending otherserious matters,
after distasteful looksand these hard fractions,
with certain half-caps andcold-moving nods
they froze me intosilence.
You gods, reward them!
Prithee, man, lookcheerly.
These old fellows have theiringratitude in them hereditary.
Their blood is caked, 'tiscold, it seldom flows;
'tis lack of kindly warmththey are not kind;
and nature, as it growsagain toward earth,
is fashioned for thejourney, dull and heavy.
Go to Ventidius.
Prithee, be not sad.
Ingeniously I speak.
No blame belongs to thee.
Ventidius lately buriedhis father,
by whose death he's steppedinto a great estate.
When he was poor, imprisoned,and in scarcity of friends,
I cleared him with fivetalents.
Greet him from me;
bid him suppose some goodnecessity touches his friend,
which craves to be rememberedwith those five talents.
That had, give it these fellowsto whom 'tis instant due.
Ne'er speak, or think,that Timon's fortunes
amongst his friends can sink.
I would I could not think it.
That thought isbounty's foe;
being free itself, itthinks all others so.